General Notes and Project Research - Lighthouse Labs' October 2018 Blockchain Cohort

I. First Price Sealed Bid Auction

First price sealed bid auctions are a kind of auction in which n participants are allowed to submit
sealed bids for some asset within a time frame as long as the bid is above a reserve price for that
asset. Bids are private and hidden from all the participants. It is analogous to collecting bids in
a sealed envelope, and waiting until after the auction is over to open each envelope and determine
the highest bidder.

The simplest version of the auction contract will use a commitment scheme where N market participants
submit a hash of their bid amount during the commitment phase of the auction. The commitment phase of
the auction will have a publicly defined start and end time. Once the commitment phase end time is
reached, the auction will enter a reveal phase. The reveal phase will also have a publicly defined end
time that must be greater than the commitment phase end time. During the reveal phase market participants
shall submit their true bid amounts and cryptographic salt to a reveal() function. The reveal() function
will hash the true bid amount from each participant using their own unique salt value, and check if this
hash is equivalent to the hash submitted by that same participant during the commitment phase of the
auction. It is vitally important that participants' salt values remain secret prior to the reveal phase
of the auction.

If the resultant hashes match, the bid is valid. The contract will track the highest bid as the reveal()
function is called by each participant during the reveal phase. Once all reveals are complete, the highest
bidder can be determined on chain and an order can be signed and filled to complete the transaction.

It will be necessary to determine how to properly incentivize honest actors and ensure all bidders
submit during the reveal phase. The intention of the protocol is to ensure participants cannot collude
with each other regarding bidding and also are not influenced by knowledge of each others' bids until
after the auction enters the reveal phase (where bids can no longer be submitted). The purpose would
be to determine the highest possible fair market price for the auctioned asset. It will also be necessary
to determine a solution for ties.

II. Strategy

First price sealed bid auctions are strategically similar to Dutch auctions where the selling price of
an asset is reduced until a buyer is found. There are also Vickrey auctions, or second price sealed bid
auctions where the asset goes to the second highest bidder instead. The motivation for this approach is
to mitigate a 'winners curse'. The winners curse hypothesis states that the winner of a first price sealed
bid auction, in which the value of the asset being auctioned is uncertain, tends to be the one who most
overestimates the value of the auctioned object.

Sealed auctions are, generally speaking, games of incomplete information with possible Nash equilibria
between participants. They may be useful in price discovery for difficult to price goods or services. If
decentralized finance will usher in new types of previously unimagined digital assets, it seems natural
that effective and fair price discovery for both buyers and sellers would be a worthy area of research.

There is also a tradition of using sealed auctions in energy contracts, or in general for procurement of 
public goods in traditional markets. Other auction formats including dutch auctions are used by the US 
treasury to price and sell their bonds. It would be generally interesting to explore the game theoretic
characteristics of various auction formats, including completely novel ones, that might help to coordinate 
the efficient allocation of natural resources or incentivize renewable energy contracts. 

III. State Channels

The commitment scheme described in (I) can be modified to use ecrecover so that only signed transactions
may be sent to the auction contract, without requiring the account owner to send transactions from their
own account. Signed commitments (bids) could be sent on behalf of an account owner through state channel
middleware.

The auction contract can use ecrecover to retrieve a bidders' ethereum address using their hashed bid
amount and signature when calling either commit() or reveal(). Signed bid commitments and bid reveals
could be queued in a centralized message queue of immutable off-chain representations of each on-chain
ethereum transaction.

This would create a point of centralization in the architecture, however, as a naive queueing service
the middleware could be scaled and/or decentralized in a variety of ways. Exploring the use of Apache
Kafka in Python as a high-performance stream of immutable transactions that could be submitted to the
blockchain at any time, depending on overall architecture and system requirements.

IV. Escrow of Funds

Each participant that commits to a bid during the commitment phase shall also be required to escrow a
certain amount of funds for the duration of the auction. This could be to give the seller assurance that
the bidder can cover their bid in the event they win the auction. This needs to be investigated more. This
escrow amount should probably be calibrated to incentivize honest behavior without incurring too much cost
to defectors. I am not sure it is necessary to require the entire reserve price in escrow, for example,
from all the bidders.

V. Griefing

Need to solve a potential griefing problem where bidders, during the reveal phase, could witness others'
revealed bid amounts and choose not to reveal. The auction will not execute any trade unless all bidders
call the reveal() function, however an individual bidder could still attempt to sabotage the auction. It
is a problem that at least applies to the simplest implementation of the auction contract. Finding a way
to either encrypt the reveals until they can be exposed in a synchronized manner, or some other mechanism
of synchronization, may be necessary.

VI. Zero Knowledge Proofs

https://blog.gnosis.pm/getting-started-with-zksnarks-zokrates-61e4f8e66bcc

Will explore zero knowledge proofs as a way to prove the owner of the highest, winning bid, without
necessarily revealing all bid amounts or bidders' identifying information. If ZKPs could be used to
facilitate some basic KYC rules that would be of interest too. For instance, zero knowledge range
proofs can prove that an end users' current jurisdiction is within some range without necessarily
revealing the jurisdiction itself or other identifying information about the end user.

VII. Secure Multi-party Computation

Multiple parties need to agree on a winning bid without necessarily revealing any of the bids to all
parties, at least until the auction results are ready to be exposed to the public. It might be possible
to exploit homomorphic properties of encrypted values to determine the highest bid on chain, without
revealing them. This would be something interesting to research.

For a minimum solution this may be overkill. In general the problem to solve is a problem of revealing
a winning bid to all participants without revealing every bid. This wikipedia article discusses a case
where a group of individuals use MPC determine the highest salary amongst them, for instance,

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_multi-party_computation

VIII. 0x Protocol

Researching possible use of the 0x protocol to facilitate the auction. Overall gas fees should be
minimized and off chain transactions as well as signing mechanisms should be explored. Having to record
every commit and reveal on chain is not necessarily ideal but may be fine for the minimum solution. By
using 0x this auction commit-reveal scheme could be leveraged for a variety of digital transactions,
potentially.

IX. Other Literature and Context

https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1173548/nash-equilibrium-in-first-price-auction
http://iqua.ece.toronto.edu/~bli/ece1771f/lectures/Episode%208.pdf
https://eml.berkeley.edu/~mcfadden/eC103_f03/auctionlect.pdf
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First-price_sealed-bid_auction
https://are.berkeley.edu/~sberto/ARE202svb_auctionsApril.pdf
https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/704.pdf
